# Portfolio_Management

You are a team of portfolio managers at an asset management company. You got assigned a client with a lot of capital and a need to manage their wealth. The client recently read a bunch of books on financial economics and learned about the Modern Portfolio Theory and the Capital Asset Pricing Model. As a result the client would like you to propose some portfolio allocations using these two models, to discuss the pros and cons of both approaches and which of the allocations you would propose to them.

The client is interested in capital allocation, so they want to split their wealth between safe asset such as T-bill, bonds, and stocks. In your proposal you consider as a proxy for stock prices a ETF with a ticker SPY, and as a proxy for bond prices a mutual fund with a ticker VUSTX.

You will present your findings in two ways. First, you will write a memo to the client with your findings (you can use any statistical software you prefer; provide the spreadsheets/code and data). The questions below highlight all areas that you need to cover in your memo. Second, you will present your findings in a short presentation (max. 10 minutes) to your client (please record it in a software of your choice).

Using Yahoo Finance and time period since 1997/1/1 until 2023/5/31, calculate weekly net rates of returns (aka returns) of stocks and bonds. Present them to the client in such a form that they will understand the main differences between stock and bond returns (compare average returns and standard deviations, plot time series of these returns, etc.)
Explain the main idea behind the Modern Portfolio Theory.
Given your client is risk-averse, using the data you have for the whole time period, tell the client whether you think there is scope for applying the main idea of Modern Portfolio Theory to allocating their capital.
Equipped with the Markowitz spreadsheet you used long time ago during one of the homework sets in the Financial Economics course and using the historical mean returns, standard deviations and correlation on the whole time period as a forecast of the future of how returns of stocks and bonds will behave, characterize the optimal risky portfolio (the mean returns, standard deviation, shares of bonds and stocks) if the risk-free rate is 0%.

Discuss the sensitivity of the above optimal risky portfolio characteristics to different assumptions about the changing risk-free rate. Explain not only how the numerical characteristics of this portfolio change but why you observe such changes.
Your client noted in initial discussion they are especially interested in understanding how the proposed allocation to stocks and bonds would fair during the recessions. In your sample there are three recessions called by the National Bureau of Economic Research.[1] The first one is a recession between March and November 2001 after the burst of the dot-com bubble. The second one is the Great Recession between December 2007 and March 2009 accompanying the Great Financial Crisis. The third one is an ongoing recession due to the COVID-19 outbreak which started in February 2020. Tell your client how the optimal risky portfolio proposed in point 3 would perform in terms of the expected returns and standard deviation if these three recessionary scenarios were to repeat themselves in the future. Hint: to complete this task (i) use the share of bonds and stocks you found in 3, and (ii) compute the expected returns and standard deviations for stocks’ and bonds’ returns as well as correlation between their returns in each recession.
Discuss any observed differences in the performance of the portfolio on the whole sample and in each of the recessions. Do not forget to discuss any differences you see in the correlation between stocks and bonds in these different time periods.
The CAPM and Multi-factor Models

After having seen your team’s results from the capital allocation problem, the client got visibly embarrassed, and finally blurted out that they compared your company’s realized returns in the last year with those of your rival. Your company made on all of your portfolio a modest 10% rate of return, whereas your rival made a whopping 15%. The client is unsure if they should still invest with your company or rather move all of their business to the rival.

Using the CAPM model, explain to your client why such a comparison of realized return might be flawed.
Using the concept of alpha, persuade the client that your company performed last year much better than the rival given that recently the prevailing risk-free rate was 0%, the expected market return was 8%, your company’s portfolio returns’ sensitivity to the market was 1, and your client’s consistently portfolio returns’ sensitivity to the market was 2.
You know that your portfolio is always constructed in such a way that there is some firm-specific risk remaining in it. Is it possible that your performance last year was pure luck rather than your skill in buying underpriced and selling overpriced stocks?
Next, your client expressed interest in investing in some auto companies’ stocks: Tesla (TSLA), Toyota (TM), and General Motors (GM). The client also heard that your team specializes in analyzing stocks based on their characteristics derived from the CAPM and Fama-French 3 factor model. Using these model present that analysis of these stocks to your client by answering the following questions.

REMARK: For that analysis you should use monthly returns for these three stocks using the same time period (this is easy: Tesla started trading later than Toyota and GM, so set the date in the code to any date before 2010, and the code will pick the time frame on its own – the sample of the monthly returns should start in December 2010). For the Fama-French factors please use the spreadsheet provided in Week 4.

Using the CAPM tell the client which of the stocks are cyclical and which are defensive. Does your answer change when you use the Fama-French 3 factor model?
According to the estimated coefficient on the SMB (size) factor, are any of the three stocks a small or large capitalization stock (please use 5% as a p-value cutoff)? Are the results consistent with what you know about each company?
According to the estimated coefficient on the HML (book-to-market) factor, are any of the three stocks a value or growth stock (please use 5% as a p-value cutoff)? Are the results consistent with your understanding what a value or growth stock is in an economic sense?
Using the CAPM, based on the estimated alpha for each stock, has any of the stocks performed better than a well-diversified portfolio with the same beta as each stock (please use 5% as a p-value cutoff)? Does your answer changes, when you use the Fama-French 3 factor model (and the benchmark portfolio has the same sensitivities to each factor as the stock)?
Based on R-squared for each stock from the Fama-French 3 factor model, for which stock the model predicts the returns the best and the worst? In general, do you think that there is still scope for improving the models, and, if so, then how?
